Number
across the whole place.
Yeah.
So when you're replacing 21, are you taking off 21 or are they not
operational?
That's what Christine's saying.
You're not independent under there?
In six stations?
Yeah.
So, if you look at, if we go page eight,
which is the fleet on the 1st July
2017,
and page 11, which is the fleet on 1st May
2026, they're essentially the same.
1,266. This is 1,267.
Yep. I got that.
So we're essentially replacing old fleet with new fleet,
but not increasing the size of the fleet.
Yeah. So what I'm actually saying, so in 2017 and
2018, you replaced 21.
Mm-hmm.
So what is the old fleet actually doing?
The machinery that you're actually replacing-
Replacing
... equipment that you're replacing, are they at the time operational and you're
actually replacing one for one? Or are they not in operation and
you're replacing 21 that is actually missing 21?
That's the question.
This is what I'm getting at.
So are they-
So are they, every time, every
opera- I mean every day that the fire-
Yep
... brigade is actually in operation, is there a total of
1,200 plus that is actually in operation?
Yeah.
Or I'm saying-
Mm. Mm
... and what is the biggest number that is actually not in operation when you
are trying to replace them, is what I'm saying.
So to get maximum efficiency from our fleet, what we do is
we have a cascade model, so the busiest stations get the newest
appliances,
and then they cascade down to the next tier of stations.
So the older trucks sit with the stations that have the least amount of calls.
How many machinery, how many equip- fire trucks are
currently, today in
operation?
As of-
As of today
... the 3rd of May-
Of course it is
... there was-
That is actually on the road-
Appliances
... and able and not broken down.
I couldn't give you that figure today because it's a
daily figure that changes. But we'd say is that
1,267 appliances are in our fleet,
as such.
Yeah. So how many-
I just don't want to say there's that many today and then find out that one's
broken down somewhere across the-
Yeah. So out of 1,267 that is actually
supposedly in your fleet, how many are not actually operating?
Today?
Yeah.
Like I said, I couldn't give you the exact number, because that depends
on any given time, any given moment, whether one breaks down, it's-
What percentage of it is actually operational?
Roughly. I mean, you're not counting the ones that's about to break down today.
Yes. Well, roughly I'd expect about-
Yeah. Okay, then we go yesterday. How many as of yesterday is actually
currently in operation?
Roughly I would expect that-
Is it 1,267?
I would expect that that's the case. Mm-hmm.
Right.
Mm-hmm.
Okay. Thank you. I'm going to move to Lamonia and then
Micah.
Thank you. So mine could be a sub on Melissa's, but more
so coming back to Mia when we talked about when you've got
appliances going to different jobs and you've got quite a
broad view. Is there a system that tracks
the
incidences, per se, and I'm more talking about an
overall automated system.
Mm-hmm.
And then how do you know at mothership that there is breakdowns on the
way there or breakdowns, is there a
monitoring tool that captures all of that?
And how often would you guys look at that?
Do you want to speak to that or should I-
Sure. Certainly. So in my portfolio I have the communications center,
and that is I guess what you'd call the mothership.
Right.
So,
every time an appliance is tasked to a job, it's done through the
communication center. Those appliances
give advice back to the comms center of when they're en route, when they arrive at
a job, status updates, et cetera. So when you looked at
that
diagram where we said that they were
code 10, I think we said code zero, I beg
your pardon, that's our crews telling the comms center that
they were not available for turnout, and that's where those figures have come from.
Okay.
So there is a overall system.
I think just in the wider system as well, every call
type is categorized, so it's put into an incident type.
And then from that we have a predetermined attendance, so we'd have how many
appliances would go to that. So if it's a big high-rise building, it might be four
pumping appliances go, and an aerial go. So that's predetermined.
And then there's a thing called the beat list, which is the
order of appliances they go to. So when we talk about the network,
it's all predetermined, and it's all in place.
So if one appliance can't make it, well, then the communication
center automatically sends the next closest one that fits into that
predetermined attendance.
And so following on from that, Madam Chair, just very quickly.
So when there's breakdown on the way or there's breakdowns for whatever reason-
Another appliance will be dispatched
... another, so you've got that sort of automated-
That redundancy
... system that-
And what,
how or who actually reviews all of that data?
And is it done on a weekly basis, particularly that you've got eyes
on those areas that have broken down, and what's the sort of
strategy to fill that up or-
Yeah. So that's-
Yeah.
So I get a weekly report through my management team, and that tells
me the activities, how many jobs we go to, what type of incidents,
and they'll raise any issues that are coming through,
the comms center. So that's-
Last one.
Yes.
Last one. And so just in terms of the seriousness of the breakdowns on
the way or at that incident, what is the strategy that is then put
in place to cover that spot or that appliance for that
particular fire station?
Yeah. Well, that's the relief fleet, and that's how we activate our relief fleet
to cover those. So at a district level,
that's monitored every day across any
breakdowns. It's monitored by our fleet team who get notified when there is
a breakdown, and obviously that activates the system with our contractors
to do the maintenance on whatever needs to happen with that, or whether or
not an investigation needs to be launched if it's more serious in the breakdown as
to what happened. But it's automated through
the system and whenever there's a breakdown, so
the notifications
are in place,
and the reporting goes up to Megan as the operational
response DCU.
Thanks. Madam Chair.
Thank you. And I've got probably four quick questions related to, I think
it's kind of following on from Andy's questions earlier around the finance
aspect. First of all, I guess what percentage of the budget is spent
on the fleet, both I guess how that's trended over the past and then forecast
into the future?
Yeah. Good question. Daryl, can you get it?
So in terms of our total spend on assets, so, and this is going
back over eight years, so 40% on property-
Wait, so but I just want to focus on the-
Yes, I understand that, and I need to put it in the section for you.
So 40% on property, 20% on fleet, 20% on equipment,
20% on ICT.
And so has that always been the case over 16 years?
It's a very consistent pattern.
And forecasted forward, it's the same 20%?
Yeah. Similar, yes.
So obviously, Finance put in a request to have the levy increased to
5.2%,
which was turned down by the minister in, it's around 2%, I think.
Yes.
And obviously was looking at a funding gap,
for the fleet to come up to age.
Had you got the 5.2%, would have that actually fixed this
issue of this funding gap?
As in all in age, is that what you're referring to?
Yeah, I'm just looking at the funding gap of 154 million
to actually bring your fleet up to the
standard, to be percent over 10 years.
And you requested
5.2%, which was turned down. Had you got the 5.2%, would have
this issue with aged fleet been fixed within 10 years
or no?
No. Not at all.
It wouldn't have been sufficient.
And it
wasn't only addressed towards capital assets.
It was a broader range of initiatives that 5.2% was designed to
be targeted towards.
Do you know what the funding gap would be had you got the 5.2?
So we've backed up, no, I think.
Okay. So you told us in the January hearing
that there's $150 million of total cost reduction,
proposed from 2026 to '29,
60 million of that, no, 90 million of that was for
managing enduring risk and another 60 million to be reinvested back into
the organization. How much of that 150 is
captured in the data we see on page 24?
And how, and none, how much would there actually be plugging this
funding gap over the next 10?
None.
So the 150 is captured in the dark blue
boxes, which is our board financial solutions.
One of the reasons why we're able to lift our investment in fleet, particularly
over the years 2028, 2029 through to 2035,
'36, is the impact of those savings,
increasing our surpluses and increasing the funding that's available to invest in
our assets in total, but also in our fleet.
So, just to ensure I'm right,
how much of the 154 sits within those blue
boxes?
So none of the 154 sits-
Oh, no. None of $150 million that you're looking to-
The $150 million.
Yeah. So I will need to come back to you on the specific figure.
Okay.
And just final-
Final, yep
... finally, I'm just trying to work out, because obviously
there's a significant
cost to get the fleet up to the right standard over this 10-year
period and create a gap. How's that impacting, I guess, the
tension with your other assets, like your training facilities and
your stations?
The, it is a prioritization with anyone who's working within a fiscal envelope, as
I'm sure you're aware.
But we have to be able to spread over which parts of these assets we have to
focus on first. So the longer-term plan, as you've talked about before, Daryl,
around the assets is again based on priority of assets, whether
it's
lifting the condition, making sure their health and safety is safe in the first
place, and then what we've got left we can use in those other areas.
Thank you. Melissa, just as a quick clarification, and then I'm going to-
Yep. Just wanting to go back to the percentages, 40 property,
20 equipment, 20 ICT, is that right?
23.
And 20.
Yes.
So that's, and then fort- so and 20 for what?
Sorry, 20 for fleet. 20% for fleet, 20% for ICT,
20% for equipment, 40% fleet. That's how that
capital investment is being distributed.
Can I just ask-
Yeah, please
... in terms of the 20% of ICT, what do you actually spend your ICT budget on?
Because when I asked earlier that,
fire crews are actually having to write on pieces of paper as to what's
wrong with their trucks.So what is it?
Most companies, according to my colleague, most companies
only use 10% of their total budget on ICT.
Why are you spending 20% and not actually having equipments for our firefighters?
And talk through that, Derek.
Do you want me to take that?
If you want.
So, as Kerry explained in the earlier meeting, we have legacy
ICT systems that are very old. And so we've got an ICT product
roadmap, so we're progressively renewing our ICT infrastructure as a
whole. So-
No. So what are you actually saying?
So you've got an ICT problem, legacy issue, so you're
trying to fix old ICT systems, and you're actually not purchasing new
equipment. Is that what you're saying?
No, not saying.
When you're procuring, when you actually look at whether it will make better sense
to actually rip the whole thing out and actually start new.
So what we're saying is that, within the disbursement of
the capital budgets there, 20% is going towards ICT.
And that is managing
a set of ICT systems that aren't
modernized for the organization to where we need it.
And this is a good example of the manual
processing that had to go to pull this information together.
We're just doing a HRS payroll system.
There's a number of our systems that need replacement, and we need to make sure
that we're balancing that investment-
Payroll system
... alongside-
Are you able to provide-
Melissa. Yeah, I'm just going to request information.
Very, we might have to put it in writing because we've only got a couple of minutes
left, and I promised Tim we would come to you.
That's fine. We can come back to that. That's fine.
Sorry, Tim.
Yeah, because I think there may some people that would like clarification.
There's a lot of rumors, about 61 million on a payroll system that never actually
got brought into use, so it'd be good to get that clarification from Melissa.
Can I just finish by asking about the capacity within Finance for
fleet management?
You've painted the picture pretty well, particularly for nine years, though it is
nine years down track now. But you inherited 289
that were outside their target age, from the numbers you've given us.
And you've introduced over those nine years as well, 318 new
ones, I think is the number you've given me.
Total.
No, totals.
Yeah.
But in that time, a further 372 have
passed 25 years. So that actually means we're now
down to 350.
So the numbers of fleet outside their target age.
So we're now total fleet outside. That's
correct, isn't it? Those numbers?
The numbers we've provided you are correct.
Okay. So sort of tracking backwards, the type three, Mr.
Foster asked about that. 196 vehicle,
105 of those are outside of the target age.
In fact, the average age is 22 years for a 20-year target.
So it sort of paints the picture of where you're at.
41 have been disposed, only two new ones since 2018.
That's from page 30 in your document.
I guess I just want to understand, because there are other, like I think of
Fonterra, they manage a fleet of manned
trucks or milk tankers.
The military manage vehicles and have systems that capture down to
individual components, both time and hours and use.
So there's the managing of the day-to-day sustainment, and then there's the
managing of the system and how we bring in.
Did Defense have the capacity to manage this in-house, or does it
need external support to manage a complex system like
this?
I think we have the capability in-house.
I'm just bringing in at the moment an independent advisor to actually give
us advice and assurance around the system that we're putting.
So it's just testing that,
just to ensure that we're doing it in the most effective way through
there. But
what we are doing is we're managing the fleet within the fiscal
constraints that we have in there alongside,
I think when you refer to the military and Fonterra, I think
that the
challenge that we find for emergency is the significant
investment that's required from the inheritance of the
existence of foreign emergency when it came to being in 2017.
So,
we're not trying to escape from the fact that
we've got a huge legacy issue of
age within the fleet. And as an organization, we've got
a plan in place for how we work ourselves out of that within the budget that
we have.
Sure. So I hear that, and I understand.
I think the question is,
nine years into Defense, though, the situation is still going
backwards based on the numbers we've been provided for this hearing.
So I understand your optimism that you've got people
that can handle it moving forward, but the numbers are tracking in the opposite
direction.
Yeah. So, the numbers are going to be
determined by the level of investment that we can put in to actually
make a
material difference in actually moving that.
Even in our planning, our planning is to,
I guess, to some degree, hold the line, so that it's not getting
worse rather than actually making that substantive change.
And I think the graphs show the difference and the gap of investment
of being able to achieve what personally I feel that
all of our firefighters want and deserve, which is to have a
fleet within the target age. Which will reduce the maintenance, which will reduce
the breakdowns.
Within
the realms of what we have to deal with,
I feel that we've got a robust system and like I say, providing assurance
over that system to ensure that we can benchmark against others and that
we can test the system
to
maintain and hold the line so that our fleet's not getting progressively
worse.
And so I hear your confidence in your teamCan I
ask, is it true that FENZ have hired independent consultants to help
them with this inquiry?
To help with this inquiry?
Yes.
I'm in the procurement process at the moment
of bringing in a specialist to actually, like I said,
provide me a level of assurance around our whole management
of the fleet to ensure if there's anything that we can learn from there
around how our process is working.
But have
FENZ contracted independent consultants to
help with this inquiry?
Oh, we certainly have, yes. To help us bring it all
together.
Bring all the material together.
And bring all the material together for us. Yes, we have.
You didn't have the in-house capacity to do that.
No, not in such a-
Short timeframe
... short timeframe, and not with the level of detail and manual
intervention that's needed.
And how much would FENZ be spending on-
Last question
... additional consultants?
I'd have to come back to you with that exact figure, but-
Does it align with government policy to use external consultants?
It will do.
Okay.
And we can come back with the detail on that.
We'll come back, yeah.
But I would, Chair, if you just-
Yes
... allow me for a second just to say,
don't underestimate the manual work that went into
compiling this for you. We want it to be open and honest and
give real clarity around it, and hopefully we've achieved that through the pack for
you.
But to bring that all together-
It's good, yeah
... we needed some support to do that.
Being challenged, yeah.
Um-
Is that not something you'd routinely have available in terms of how you manage
your fleet, that you would have had that list of all the vehicles?
Well, as I say, the-
It's a lot
... the IT systems that we have to support that, and that's
part of our improvement plan around it.
But we don't have that just to draw those reports out, as you would expect for a
big organization like ours.
Yeah. Can I, I have to stop us there because we do have other business, and that is
the end of it, and I did let it go another couple of minutes, actually.
Thank you.
But I want to say thank you very much.
And look, we do appreciate the work that has gone in to get this.
It's a document that I think will be very useful in our inquiry going forward,
and I think there may be other questions that come from
this. So are you open to us getting you written questions
throughout-
Mm-hmm. Absolutely
... so that we can get those to you?
Yeah.
But I know that you've already committed to getting some information back
from two various members who asked specific questions.
Yes.
So thank you for that.
Yeah.
Thank you for your time.
Can we get them in at any other stage?
We do, towards the-
Yeah
... yeah, the end.
Towards the end.
Yeah.
Definitely.
We do have a time that we've got.
We'll come back to you with what was asked this morning.
We've actually got the answers now.
We did some work in between, but I know we've run out of time, so.
Yeah. Great. Look, thank you very much.
We really appreciate that this morning and the short time this afternoon, and
we look forward to engaging with you further.
Thank you.
Thank you all.
Cheers.